Sometimes it can feel like nothing is
working on Instagram. It feels like
you're doing everything right and yet
everyone else is getting better results.
And so in today's episode, I'm going to
be sharing with you nine Instagram hacks
that actually work. These are Instagram
hacks, not strategies. And the way I
differentiate between the two is that
strategies work today, tomorrow, next
month, and next year. Strategies rarely
change, but hacks are often times just a
flash in the pan. They're a way to get a
quick boost in views, to spike your
engagement, or to get a bunch of
eyeballs on a specific post, but they're
not necessarily something that you're
going to be using every single day or
likely going to be using a few months
from now. And that's why here on my
channel, I primarily focus on the
strategies, the tried andrue,
researchbacked strategies that are
proven to be most effective so you can
get the best possible results in the
least amount of time possible. But
that's not what we're going to be
talking about today. So, let's get into
it. Hack number one is the Meta Glasses
hack. Now, some of you might be familiar
with the new Meta Ray-B band glasses
that Facebook/ Meta/ Instagram has
released. They're kind of like Ray-B
bands that have like a little camera in
them. And they're trying to hype them
up. They're trying to get as many people
as possible to know about and talk about
and use these glasses. But the glasses
are like $300 or $400 US. And so you
probably don't want to buy a pair of
Meta glasses just to post on Instagram.
I hear you. And while I think they're
cool and that's my personal opinion,
whatever, there's actually a hack, a way
that you can create an Instagram story,
trick the algorithm into thinking that
the story was made using the Meta Ray-B
band glasses, and thus the algorithm
will push that story out to more people
because Instagram wants more people to
see stories that were made with the meta
glasses. Now, this is one of those hacks
that is definitely going to be available
today and gone tomorrow because
Instagram wants to reward people who are
actually creating content using the meta
glasses and not just tricking their
system. But if we can take advantage of
this while it is working and get a boost
in our story views, let's take advantage
of it. All you have to do to make this
hack work is number one, download the
photo that I have linked up in the show
notes below this episode. It has to be
this specific photo. I've tried it with
other photos, other wide-angle or
fisheye photos, and it just doesn't
work. So, I'm sure that there are some
other versions of this photo out there,
but it has to be this specific image, or
at least that's the image that I'm going
to recommend you use. Download that and
then go to your Instagram profile page.
Tap on the plus button in the upper
right hand corner and then tap on the
button that says story. Then I want you
to select the photo that you just
downloaded, the fisheye of the guy
driving his car with like his hairy
legs. Okay, tap on that and open that.
Now, by adding that photo to your
stories, Instagram thinks this story was
made with meta glasses. But the good
news is you don't have to post a photo
of some random dude's hairy legs.
Instead, you can tap on the stickers
button again at the top, then tap on the
button that says photos, and you can
select any other photo from your camera
roll. And then once you enlarge it, you
drag it to make it cover up the full
screen. It will cover up the dude with
the hairy legs, and it will still count
as a meta glasses story. And again,
because Instagram thinks that the story
was made using meta glasses, it will
likely boost it to more people. Now, I
would recommend using this story
strategically. So, you could use it to
get some more views on your latest
thirst trap selfie. You could use it to
show off some random photo of you
looking cool. Or you could use that
specific story to promote your business.
You could put a link sticker on that
story. But even better than that would
be hack number two, which is you could
use the meta glasses story to be your
STD story. The STD story is Instagram
hack number two. STD, yes, is a funny
acronym and you won't forget it because
it's funny. It's memorable. But the S
stands for single, meaning that you're
just going to post a single Instagram
story. That means that all of your
previous stories, you need to let them
expire and all of your stories after are
non-existent. You're not posting any
more stories for the rest of the day.
You're just posting one singular photo
on your stories for that day. The T in
the STD stands for textheavy. That means
that your story is not a video. It is a
photo or just even just a solid color
that has a fair amount of text on it,
like multiple sentences, preferably
quite a bit of text. What this does is
it encourages the viewers, the people
watching your stories to hold their
finger down, thus pausing your story so
that they can read all the text. While
they're holding your finger down, that
is extending the view duration of your
story. Basically, your story has a
greater viewer retention rate and thus
it will be boosted by the algorithm. But
the ultimate metric that will get your
story boosted by the algorithm is the D.
You can't have an STD without the D. And
the D stands for DM automation.
Basically, at the bottom of your story,
instead of putting the link sticker and
telling people to tap on the link,
you're going to tell people, "Reply with
the word blank, and I will send you
blank. Reply with the word guide and I
will send you my free guide to rock
climbing, whatever it may be." If you
want more information on DM automation,
I did an entire episode about that just
a few weeks ago. In my opinion, it is
the best tool for anyone who wants to
get more views, followers, or sales on
Instagram. But again, you can't have an
STD without the D, and that is hack
number two. Hack number three is what I
call the two slide carousel. Now,
Instagram has become overrun with reals
over the last few years. People are
posting way more reels than they are
carousels. And that has led to carousels
becoming a huge opportunity, a way that
you can reach way more people because
you don't have to fight with the
hundreds of millions of other reels
being posted that day. you only have to
fight with the significantly lower
amount of carousels being posted every
single day. And so here's what I'm going
to recommend you do. Take any reel that
you have previously posted, but
preferably a reel that is a talking head
reel, a reel where you are speaking
directly to the camera or at least you
are doing a voice over of some kind
where there's some sort of spoken audio
in the reel. Take any reel from the past
where that is the case and then create a
still image. It can be a screenshot from
the reel. It can be a photo of you. Or
it can be some other relevant image that
somehow relates to the real. And then
add a headline to that image. A headline
of course that relates to the real. A
headline that can be, you know, one
sentence, maybe around 5 to 12 words
long that encapsulates or summarizes or
sensationalizes even what the real is
about. Then what you're going to do is
post a carousel that is only two slides.
The first slide of the carousel is the
headline. It's the attentiongrabbing
news. And then when people swipe, it
reveals your reel. So really, this
should be very easy for you to create.
It just takes a few seconds to maybe
find a photo of yourself and come up
with what the headline is going to be.
But this two slider carousel, as I like
to call it, is a great way to repurpose
the content that you've already made and
allow yourself to create more content
that is still great, highquality,
captivating, engaging content, but do so
in a very efficient manner that's not
going to take you very much time,
energy, or effort. Hey, bad news. Brock
here with a little bit of bad news that
I need to interrupt today's episode to
let you know about, which is that using
hacks and gimmicks and even growing or
going viral on Instagram does not equal
having a successful business. I mean, it
can be fun to post reels. It can be fun
to get a lot of likes and followers, but
at the end of the day, what you need is
customers, and that's the only way
you're going to make money on Instagram.
Instagram views will not pay the bills.
What you need is paying customers who
are actually purchasing your products.
But I hear you. If we think the
Instagram algorithm is complicated, the
business side of things is where things
really get complicated. Automation,
software, tech, web design, email lists,
campaigns, landing pages, all of this
stuff is complicated. And for most of
us, it's a lot less fun than posting on
Instagram. And so that's why I've
partnered with HighLevel. Highlevel is
really cool because it's two things at
the exact same time. On one hand, it's a
jack of all trades. So that as your
business grows over these next few years
and you start hitting six figure years,
six figure months, seven figure years
and eight figure business and you start
expanding your team and building all
these complex things, high level can
grow with you. But at the same time,
it's the perfect place if you're day
one. If you're a solo entrepreneur and
you aren't techy, I ain't techie myself,
but one of my favorite things about High
Level is that they have an amazing
customer support team that is literally
standing by 24/7 around the world so
they can help you get set up so that you
don't have to become an automations
expert, so that you don't have to become
a landing page expert. And so if you're
someone who's ready to start taking this
online business thing seriously, not
just posting reels, but actually paying
the bills, check the link down in the
description below to get signed up for
HighLevel today. Instagram hack number
four. And this one I am praying, I am
hoping that this one isn't so overdone
and so horribly annoying by the time
that you hear this, but it's the
horizontal real trend. This is the
latest Instagram hack. Basically making
your post super horizontal, super wide.
It's like 5,000 pixels by 1080. And
sure, it works right now. And it might
work for another day or so, but it's a
hack. It's not a proven strategy. And
more importantly, it's something that's
probably going to annoy your viewers or
your customers. The horizontal real
trend first began blowing up around
September 20th, maybe September 21st of
2025. And basically, it's a very easy
hack. It's just that people figured out
that you could post reels that were very
skinny, very wide, and very short to
your Instagram feed. And because this
was so different from the norm, it was
grabbing people's attention. It's not
like Instagram is trying to push more
horizontal reels. It's not like
Instagram is favoring horizontal reels.
It's simply that we're so used to these
vertical, tall, full screen reels that
suddenly when we see one that is
shrunken down and super horizontal, it
grabs our attention. This quote unquote
hack is very easy to achieve using
pretty much any editing software. If you
are using Canva, all you have to do is
set your dimensions to a width of 5,120
pixels and a height of 1080p. Then you
just add your video, you drag it to be
covering the entire window. You export
it and you're good to go. You can also
do this in Canva. You can also
theoretically do this right in your
camera roll by just shrinking down the
crop of your reel to make it horizontal.
Now, like I said when I first introduced
this hack, there are quite a lot of
people who do not enjoy this hack and it
is something that has kind of been
getting on people's nerves already. Now,
I think it's getting on people's nerves
because it's become overdone and like
everyone has got to do their version to
the point that the official at creators
account of Instagram made a post about
these horizontal reels. But I think that
by the time you're seeing this in
October, it should hopefully have died
down. And if you want to strategically
use this hack, I think you can do so in
a way that you're going to be safe and
you're not going to annoy some people.
Just make sure that you're doing it
strategically. Make sure you're doing it
with a purpose and you're not just doing
it as a way to be gimmicky and confuse
your followers. Instagram hack number
five is what I like to call the hook
swap strategy. Also known as
transitional reels. Basically, the hook
is the most important part of your reel.
I usually say that 80% of your time,
energy, and effort should be spent on
your hook and improving your hook and
coming up with better hooks. And your
hook, of course, is not just the text or
the words. It's the entire video. It's
the sound. It's the visual. It's
everything. But one really cool strategy
or hack, if you will, that you can use
on Instagram is to seamlessly transition
from a viral hook, from a video that is
super captivating and proven to be
engaging and seamlessly transition into
your own reel.
>> Mistakes happen. Your tattoo shouldn't
be one. Visit Ministry of Ink. Maybe
it's your own talking head video, your
own B-roll reel, your own vlog, whatever
it may be, but seamlessly transitioning
between the two, hooks in your audience,
and then they're so hooked that they
keep watching the rest of your reel.
Hook swaps ultimately come down to
what's called a match cut. Basically,
having some sort of image or object or
having whatever the main focal point of
the first video be matched into the
second video. So, if the first video is
a video of a gorilla doing like a funny
spin in his enclosure, then the second
video should begin with me also doing a
spin or finishing the movement or being
in the same pose. Again, it's called a
match cut. And when you do this match
cut, it makes the seamless illusion of
the first viral video transition
perfectly into the second video. In
order to help you out, I created a free
library of 40 of these hook swap videos.
All you have to do to get access to
those is go to my Instagram, Brock Leven
Johnson, and DM me. Send me a direct
message with the word swap. Just say
swap, swap. Nothing else. You don't have
to say please or thank you. And you'll
automatically get a reply so that you
can get those 40 transitional hook
videos and you can use them in your
future reels to get more views.
Instagram hack number six is direct
message automation. I've been talking
about this since 2021 and I'm so happy
that now over a million people use DM
automation. But when you think about the
total size of the creator economy, that
still means that less than 1% of people
are actually using DM automation. And if
you think about the people who actually
use it on a daily basis to promote their
business and get more views and link
clicks, we're probably talking about.1%
of creators. So there is still a massive
opportunity for you to start using DM
automation. DM automation is that thing
where someone says comment the word
blank to receive blank. It's a
win-winwin. The first win is for your
customers or viewers because instead of
having to go to some confusing link in
your bio with a long menu, they can just
comment a keyword very simply and then
you serve up the link or the guide or
the free transitional hooks or whatever
it is in their DMs sent directly to
them. The second win is for the
algorithm because usually when you go to
sell something, you say, "Click the link
in my bio." But when you say that, no
one's going to engage with your post
because the people who are not
interested in what you're selling,
they're just going to scroll away. And
the people who are interested in what
you're selling, they're going to leave
your post alone and go click the link in
your bio. And so you're left with little
to no engagement. Instead, when you use
DM automation, everyone who's interested
in the link is going to comment, aka
interact with your post. And that
increase of engagement will help you get
more views, which the algorithm loves.
And the third win is for you as the
brand or business owner. Because you are
serving your audience better and because
you are getting more engagement and
interaction on your posts, your posts
will reach more people. On average, we
see a significant increase in views,
engagement, and link clicks when using
DM automation compared to when relying
on the link in bio or even the link on
your Instagram stories. I'll put a link
down in the show notes below so you can
check out DM automation provided by
ManyHat. Manyhat is an officially
approved partner of Instagram. Most
third-party tools just access Instagram
through allowed doors, kind of like
unlock doors that Instagram has left
open for thirdparty tools, but not
Manyhat. Manyhat has taken it a step
further and has become an officially
approved partner. They work with Meta
and Instagram on a weekly basis, and so
it's totally safe. It's totally secure.
I've been using it for about 4 years and
it has revolutionized my business on
Instagram. I did an entire episode about
it a few weeks ago, so you can check
that out if you want more info or if you
are ready to sign up. I have a free
trial code down in the show notes below.
Instagram hack number seven is what I
like to call the secret post. The secret
post is essentially posting something on
Instagram and the second that it
finishes uploading, you're going to
archive the post so it's hidden. So,
probably no one's going to see it. Like,
unless you're Taylor Swift and millions
of Swifties have your post notifications
turned on and they get an alert the
second you press post and then they see
it. What's going to happen is no one's
going to see the post because you
immediately archive it. And I do want to
make sure we're clear. Archive it, but
don't delete it. The post is now hidden.
It's tucked away. No one has seen it.
And you can strategically use that to
your advantage. What I've done in the
past is posted a solid yellow post with
big black letters that say secret post
or hidden post. And then the second I
finish uploading it, I archive it. I
hide it. And what that allows me to do
is use that post in the future for some
sort of fun interactive game. I could do
a giveaway where I tell my followers, if
you can find the hidden post, you will
win X, Y, or Z. If you can find my
secret post, you'll be entered in to win
a one-on-one coaching call. Basically,
it's just a really fun, unique,
different way that you can engage your
followers in a way that breaks the norm.
It's a pattern interrupt. It's a game,
and it's very, very interactive. And I
forgot to mention probably the most
important part of this strategy, which
is that you have to unarchive the post.
you have to unhide it when you make the
second post announcing that there is a
hidden post somewhere or else people are
going to be scrolling through your feed
and you've never unarived it so they're
never going to find anything. Basically
a few days or a few weeks or even if
you're bold a few months later you can
make a second post saying go find the
secret post and then when you do that
unarchive the original secret hidden
post and it just creates a really fun
interactive way for people to really
take a look at your feed. What's going
to happen is people are going to go to
your profile and they're going to be
scrolling. They're going to be looking
for the hidden post. And what's probably
going to happen is they're going to
stumble across other posts, posts that
they missed, things that they're
interested in. It's a great way to just
boost engagement overall across your
profile. Instagram hack number eight is
also about hiding something. It's also
something that's going to be hidden, and
it is hiding the timer on your Instagram
stories in order to create a cool
confetti effect. Basically, there is a
timer sticker that you can add to your
Instagram stories. And most people use
it as a countdown sticker to alert for a
upcoming live training or a sale or
something like that. And when the timer
hits zero, if your story is still
active, there will be a confetti
explosion. It's just a cool interactive
effect. But something that I like to do
is whenever I'm making a big
announcement, I don't use the countdown
timer to countdown to the time of the
announcement. I instead set the
countdown timer to one minute later than
when I am actively posting the story.
So, if I'm posting the story at 8:51
a.m., I will set the countdown to end at
8:52 a.m. And then I will drag the
countdown sticker off of the screen. So,
that means that anyone who is viewing my
story after that first minute that I
post it, they're not going to see a
random countdown sticker. They're going
to see an explosion of confetti across
their screen. And it's just another
great fun interactive way to break the
pattern of just tap tap tapping through
stories. Call attention to whatever your
story is. And you could use this to
announce a sale, talk about a live, or
really just promote anything that you
want to get more eyeballs on. And then
last but not least, my ninth Instagram
hack that actually works is when you are
doing those story responses. You know,
when you put up one of those Q&A
stickers and you allow people to ask you
questions or give you suggestions or
whatever, usually you can only reply to
one of those at a time. But I've come up
with a little hack that can allow you to
reply to two or three at a time. And
when would this be useful? This would be
useful if there are multiple people
asking a similar question and you want
to answer them all on one story. This
could also be useful if you want to
answer two or maybe even three questions
on one story so that people have more to
consume on each individual clip instead
of having to tap through two to three
individual stories to get the two to
three individual answers. All you have
to do is select one of the questions
that you want to answer, take a
screenshot of it, and then crop your
screenshot so that it's right on the
edges of that question sticker. Then you
do that again for a second or a third or
a fourth or however many different
questions you want to have on this
singular story. And then finally, just
select the actual question that you're
going to be replying to. And then go
through the normal story reply response.
And then once you have finished taking
your photo or your video for that story,
just tap on the stickers button up at
the top of the screen. And then you can
tap on the photos button and you can
select all of those screenshots that you
just took and it will add them as if you
are responding to multiple questions at
the same time. I would love to hear from
you in the comments below if you try out
any of these hacks and whether or not
they work for you. Thank you so much for
being here. Don't forget to hit
subscribe and if you really enjoyed
today's episode, hit that hype button as
well because it really helps boost this
video out to more people. I will see you
in the next one and as always happy
networking.